I have over 600 000 followers on
Instagram but if I had to go back to day
one and start from zero followers here's
exactly what I would do in case you
haven't met before hi there my name is
Brock Johnson it's my job to help you
grow on social media over the last two
years I've been growing my own Instagram
at a rate of 1000 followers per day from
less than 50 000 followers at the
beginning of 2021 to now over 600 000
followers and I'm continuing to grow and
consistently not just growing followers
but convert those followers into
customer I've also now coached thousands
of other creators and entrepreneurs on
how to grow their account as well and
within our membership club we have
dozens of members who have over 100 000
followers and one of our members
actually has the most viewed reel on the
history of Instagram and oftentimes the
strategies and practices that you're
going to put into place when you have a
relatively large following are different
than when you're starting with zero
followers so with that being said let's
go back to square one and talk about
what I would do if I had zero followers
and I was starting fresh first and
foremost before I even started that new
account don't I would take a break and I
know this sounds weird but oftentimes we
feel burnt out and overwhelmed by
Instagram because we don't allow
ourselves to rest but oftentimes it's
resting that allows us to not quit so if
you're feeling burnt out frustrated and
overwhelmed by Instagram currently let's
say you have an existing account and
you're just banging your head against
the wall take a break take a breather
it's okay to take a month off and then
start fresh from there then once I did
decide to come back and I would launch
this new Instagram account before I even
picked up the username or press that
setup Account button I would make sure I
had a crystal clear Niche now Niche is a
scary word that gets thrown around a lot
in online entrepreneurship but the way I
define niche is having two things very
clearly identified number one the topic
category or content that you are going
to be posting about and number two the
ideal follower who you are going to be
posting for so saying that I'm going to
post Fitness for everyone is not a very
well-defined Niche because there's so
many subcategories Within Fitness and
everyone is definitely way too broad of
an ideal follower it's cliche to say but
it's true the riches are in the niches
and I know it's scary but the more you
Niche down the more crystal clear and
and Tiny that you can get with what
you're going to be posting about and
whom you're going to be posting for the
faster you will grow if you're posting
rock climbing tips for everyone you're
going to grow pretty slow but if you're
posting beginner rock climber tips for
women over 40 you're growing to grow a
lot faster because people know if they
should follow you or not it's impossible
to be liked by everyone and on Instagram
your goal should not be to be liked by
everyone your goal should be to be loved
by your ideal group of followers and fun
fact those ideal followers are also
probably going to turn into ideal
customers eventually if you're posting
about beginner rock climbing tips for
women in their 40s than a man in his 20s
probably isn't going to follow you and
they're probably not going to become a
customer down the line that's probably a
good thing because the tips that you're
going to give to someone in their 20s is
probably different than someone in their
40s the tips that you're going to give
to or a beginner are very different than
tips you're going to give to an
intermediate or an advanced person the
more crystal clear and Niche down you
can get the faster you will grow one of
my favorite examples of this is one of
our students Cherise Allison who when
she first joined our club she was mainly
focused on posting Fitness and weight
loss and wellness tips for women it was
kind of a kind of vanilla and to be
honest there are thousands if not
millions of other people online doing
exactly what she does but we started
talking to her we got a little bit more
for story and we learned that she was
battling and recovering from addiction
herself and that was a big part of her
Wellness Journey another big part of her
journey was doing at-home quick and easy
workouts she didn't want to have to go
to the gym and spend two hours in there
slaving away she instead wanted to do
quick and easy at home workouts so we
made some adjustments to her bio we
started to get more clear with her Niche
and she's now grown to over 100
000 followers on Instagram another
awesome example of this is the mobile
ability Duo they do injury prevention
four snowboarders through yoga they
don't even appeal to skiers they're not
saying hey winter sports enthusiasts or
hey outdoor people or hey extreme sports
enthusiasts or stream Sports lovers no
no they're only talking to snowboarders
and they're not giving them like
exercise routines with like weights and
dumbbells and they're not giving like
all these crazy Advanced Nutrition tips
they're really just focused on giving
yoga they're really just focused on
helping snowboarders prevent injuries
through primarily yoga and other
Physical Therapy aligned practices and
it's because of that Crystal Clear Niche
that they've been able to grow to over
150 000 followers and consistently
triple or quadruple their sales goals
and expectations because they know who
their ideal follower is so if you're
snowboarder and you land on their page
and you're looking to prevent injuries
you know that you should follow them you
know that you're right for them and when
it comes time to sell and promote their
offers you know that it's going to help
you and it's really important that you
start with Niche before moving on to
anything else 97 of our new incoming
members into our Instagram Club think
they have their Niche quickly identified
yet in fact they do not they come in at
thinking that they know who their target
follower is or what their topic is going
to be about but then when we start to
really ask them and we start to look at
their content we realize that it's
really vague it's vanilla it's
wishy-washy it's constantly changing so
I want you to get crystal clear on your
Niche before moving on once you have
your Niche identified then you can set
up your bio and optimize it for grow and
there's a few key areas I want you to
think about number one first and
foremost the username I recommend having
your first and last name in your
username unless you are creating an
Instagram account for a specific brand
you if you can have your first and last
name and a keyword relating to your
industry that's even better so Brock
Johnson dot Instagram or Brock Johnson
underscore coaching or Brock Johnson
underscore Fitness or Brock Johnson dot
baking those sorts of things would make
my Instagram more searchable if I was in
those categories but I don't want you to
get too caught up in the username and I
don't want you to make your username too
long that it's just a jumbled mess of
letters you should make it clear and
easy to read speaking of clear we want
to make sure that your Instagram profile
picture is a well-lit close-up selfie as
far away as I am from the camera right
now is too far for your Instagram
profile picture you want to get right up
in the camera you want to be well lit
easy to see and then Pro tip use canva
to remove the background of whatever
you're standing in front of and put
yourself on a solid color every single
day we see thousands of thousands of
those tiny little Instagram profile
pictures so if yours is on a solid
background with a clear well lit selfie
you're going to stand out and I'm going
to be that much more likely to click on
your profile then once I get to your
profile there's one line that everyone
messes up and it's your Instagram name
the Instagram name is that bold text
that's right below your profile picture
and because it's called the name most
people just put their name but if my
Instagram username was Brock 11 Johnson
and then I put Brock Johnson on that
name line then the only way I could be
searched for on Instagram is if someone
knew my name and that's not very ideal
that's not very optimized so instead on
our Instagram name I want you to put
some keywords about yourself think about
it like a title for your Instagram
account on mine it says Instagram growth
coach I used to have IG growth coach but
I thought more about it and realized
that people probably aren't searching
for IG there's probably way more people
who are looking up Instagram growth
coach so I made that change I want you
to think about what keywords is my ideal
follower looking up and I know you might
call yourself The Sassy marketing ninja
but most likely your ideal follower
isn't looking up a sassy marketing ninja
they're most likely looking up a female
Millennial business coach so use those
kind of generic terms that would be very
searchable by your ideal follower in
that Instagram name line then moving on
in your bio the first line of your bio
should clearly articulate and identify
your Niche who is your ideal follower
and what are you going to provide for
them what problem for your ideal Avatar
are you going to be solving what kind of
content are you going to be providing
and for whom basically on this line
you're answering the question who should
follow me and why then the second and or
third line of your bio are a little bit
less important but can continue to
articulate why someone should follow you
maybe your credibility your expertise or
what you might offer and then that
fourth line of your bio should be a call
to action if you have a link and you're
planning on putting that on your
Instagram then the call to action can
direct people to click on the link or
click on the a link to grab my free
download whenever it may be but if you
don't have a link that you're ready to
put if you don't have an offer that
you're ready to direct people to then it
might just be beneficial to use that
fourth line to say follow for more or
watch my stories for insert the blank
basically you want to end your bio
encouraging people to take next steps
whatever those next steps may be and yes
you can put more than four lines on your
bio but from what we've found when you
start to go more than four lines it goes
dot dot dot more and the likelihood that
someone's willing to press that button
and read through your fifth sixth
seventh eighth line of your bio about
how you have eight kids and you're a
wine lover and you love skiing is very
unlikely so instead try to keep your bio
to four lines or less and try to keep
each line relatively short remember
people have short attention spans so
keep it brief keep it succinct we don't
need a bunch of run-on adjectives about
all the different things you love to do
we need to clearly articulate here's who
I want to follow me here's why those
people should follow then before you
worry about doing anything else I want
you to post 12 to 15 feet posts these
can be carousels photos reels it doesn't
really matter but what it does matter is
that these posts are great examples of
the kinds of content that people can
expect from you with these 12 to 15
posts you're not caring about engagement
you don't care how many views they get
you don't care if they go viral you
don't care if they get any likes or
comments I don't care if it all says
zero the goal is to have something for
people to look at when they come in
imagine it like you were opening up a
new restaurant imagine it like you were
opening up a new clothing store and the
first day you opened you put the sign up
on top you put the open now signing
shirt and inviting people inside then
when they walked inside there were no
clothes on any of the racks there were
no shoes on display there was no jewelry
up at the counter there was nothing well
then obviously people are gonna walk
right out of that store so before you
start trying to grow this Instagram and
promoting it on all your other channels
and being like hey you need to follow me
we need to have a reason to follow you
so I recommend posting at least 12 to 15
pieces of content to your feed that are
exemplary of what people can expect from
you in the future you might be creating
new content for this or Pro tip if you
are starting over on Instagram let's say
you already had an account running and
now you're just wanting to start fresh
for whatever reason you can take some of
your best posts from that Old account
and recycle them onto the new account
literally just post them again onto the
new account they've already performed
well they've already done well on this
old account as long as they still relate
to your Niche you can share them on this
new account again I don't want you to
worry about engagement or anything like
hashtags or how many people your post is
reaching I really just want you to focus
on the value of the content now this
next step is only for those of you who
are restarting on Instagram if you've
never been on Instagram before if you've
never used social media before you're
not gonna be able to do this step but
most of us have been on Instagram or we
have been on some other social media
before and so the next step the fifth
step is to promote your new account on
any of your old account but be very
clear say only follow this account if
you meet X Y and Z demographics or if
you're interested in X Y and Z topic or
else you're going to end up with all the
same followers that you had before and
you're going to end up with the same low
engagement you had before so make sure
you're very clear only follow this
account if you want blank and then be
very very specific about the content
you're going to be providing and the
type of demographic or the ideal
follower of who you are trying to
attract and then you can continue
promoting this new account on your old
account and it doesn't just have to be
on your old Instagram account it could
be on your Tick Tock to Twitter your
YouTube If you have an email list
definitely send out an email to your
email list about this new account and
just continue to promote this new
account and just continue also to be
specific about what people can expect on
this new account and at this point
you're pretty much all set up so my
sixth and final thing that I would do is
just continue posting I would recommend
posting at least once a day speaking of
and with that in mind it might be wise
before you even begin this restarting
process to batch some content take that
time off take that time away from
Instagram to create new content create
new reels create new photos and
carousels so when you come back to
Instagram you don't have the same burden
of overwhelming stress that you felt
with the current Instagram take a month
or so off to create some content so that
when you come back to Instagram when you
start this new fresh account you can hit
the ground running you can be two or
three or four weeks ahead of schedule
with your content so you don't have to
constantly have to be creating new
content every single day and the reason
I say to post at least one feed post per
day is that Studies have shown the more
you post the more you grow as long as
you can sustain that level of frequency
and as long as your posts remain
valuable entertaining or impactful for
your audience you're going to continue
to grow and before I end this video I
just want to say I know it's scary to
sort a new account but I want to applaud
you for watching this video and even
considering starting a new Instagram
account I know it feels scary to start
at zero I know it feels like you lose
all your credibility when you don't have
any followers but I just want to
encourage you that oftentimes new
accounts can grow even faster you're not
bogged down by thousands and thousands
of fake followers and spam accounts or
years of low engagement and low activity
instead you can start fresh with a clean
slate instead of starting six feet deep
in a hole you're starting at Ground Zero
so I encourage you to get started today
let me know in the comments if one of
these tips was extra helpful for you and
don't forget to subscribe for more
content just like this